s2i-openliberty/README.md, before:

# S2I for IBM OpenLiberty

S2I for IBM Openliberty Java EE containers. Build on top of CentOS 7 with high configurability.  
https://github.com/HasseNasse/s2images/tree/master/s2i-openliberty
https://hub.docker.com/r/hassenasse/s2i-openliberty

| Java Version | JVM                                   |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------- |
| 11.0.4       | HotSpot OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 |
| 8            | HotSpot OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM      |

| Application Server | Application Server Version | Java Version | Image Tag      |
| ------------------ | -------------------------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| IBM OpenLiberty    | 19.0.0.8                   | 11.0.4       | 19.0.0.8-jdk11 |
| IBM OpenLiberty    | 19.0.0.8                   | 8            | 19.0.0.8-jdk8  |

## Introduction

Source-to-Image (S2I) is a toolkit and workflow for building reproducible container images from source code. S2I produces ready-to-run images by injecting source code into a container image and letting the container prepare that source code for execution. By creating self-assembling builder images, you can version and control your build environments exactly like you use container images to version your runtime environments. (Source: https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image)

## Usage

This image allows providing application source and building a runnable image, which can be deployed to your docker-engine or Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster. The application source should be packaged as a ThinWar (Source Code + Internal Dependencies).

For an example project, see: https://github.com/HasseNasse/jakartaee-mp-archetype

### 1. Local Environment

Use the s2i CLI to create images using this builder image. You can download the CLI from this source: https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image/releases

Run the following command:  
`s2i build <APP_DIR> hassenasse/s2i-openliberty:<LIBERTY_VERSION> <APP_NAME> --copy`

_Example:_  
`s2i build ~/dev/FruitApp hassenasse/s2i-openliberty:19.0.0.8-jdk11 fruit-app --copy`

This command will create a local imagestream which can be inspected using `docker image ls`, this imagestream will have the name `<APP_NAME>`.

After a successfull build, the container can be initiated using the following command:  
`docker container run -d -p 9080:9080 -p 9443:9443 --name <APP_NAME> <APP_NAME>:latest`

### 2. OpenShift Deployment

Retrieve the image from hub.docker.com to your local registry:  
`docker pull hassenasse/s2i-openliberty:19.0.0.8-jdk11`

Import the s2i image to your OpenShift / MiniShift image registry:  
`oc import-image s2i-openliberty --from=hassenasse/s2i-openliberty:19.0.0.8-jdk11 --confirm`

Create a new openshift project:  
`oc new-project <PROJECT_NAME>`

#### Binary Builds

> The image requires a pre-built `*.war` file to be present in `<APP_DIR>/targets`.

After importing the image to our cluster registry (see 'OpenShift Deployment'), we can choose to build our applications directly from source.

Create an application using the s2i image:  
`oc new-build --name=<APP_NAME> --image-stream=<PROJECT_NAME>/s2i-openliberty:19.0.0.8-jdk11 --binary`

Start a binary build, pointing to the `<APP_DIR>`:  
`oc start-build bc/<APP_NAME> --from-dir <APP_DIR> --follow`

After the image is build and pushed to your image registry, we can view our newly built s2i using:  
`oc get is --selector="app=<APP_NAME>"`  
We should be able to see an image in the format:

| NAME       | DOCKER REPO                   | TAGS   | UPDATED              |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- | ------ | -------------------- |
| <APP_NAME> | .../<PROJECT_NAME>/<APP_NAME> | latest | a few seconds ago... |

We can now deploy our pre-packaged image:  
`oc new-app <PROJECT_NAME>/<APP_NAME>:latest --name <APP_NAME>`

## Configurability

All liberty server configurations should be added to the `<APP_DIR>/liberty` folder. These files can include the following:

| File/Folder Name     |                                                                                                                                                        Description                                                                                                                                                        |
| -------------------- | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| server.xml           |                                                                                                      The application server configuration is described in a series of elements in the server.xml configuration file.                                                                                                      |
| server.env           |                                                                                                 The Liberty specific environment variables can be configured in the server.env file to customize the Liberty environment.                                                                                                 |
| jvm.options          |                                                                          The jvm.options files are optional but, when present, are read by the bin/server shell script to determine what options to use when launching the JVM for Open Liberty.                                                                          |
| bootstrap.properties | The bootstrap.properties file is optional but, when present, it is read during Open Liberty bootstrap to provide config for the earliest stages of the server start-up. It is read by the server much earlier than server.xml so it can affect the start-up and behavior of the Open Liberty kernel right from the start. |
| resources/           |                                                                       Shared resource definitions: adapters, data sources, are injected into `wlp/usr/shared/resources/`. Can be referenced in server.xml using `${shared.resource.dir}` property.                                                                        |

For more info:  
https://openliberty.io/docs/ref/config/serverConfiguration.html
https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSD28V_liberty/com.ibm.websphere.wlp.core.doc/ae/rwlp_dirs.html

Commit message:

ADD payara-micro s2i configuration ADD payara-micro test-application

s2i-openliberty/README.md, after:

# S2I for IBM OpenLiberty

S2I for IBM Openliberty Java EE containers. Build on top of CentOS 7 with high configurability.  
https://github.com/HasseNasse/s2images/tree/master/s2i-openliberty
https://hub.docker.com/r/hassenasse/s2i-openliberty

| Java Version | JVM                                   |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------- |
| 11.0.4       | HotSpot OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 |
| 8            | HotSpot OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM      |

| Application Server | Application Server Version | Java Version | Image Tag      |
| ------------------ | -------------------------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| IBM OpenLiberty    | 19.0.0.8                   | 11.0.4       | 19.0.0.8-jdk11 |
| IBM OpenLiberty    | 19.0.0.8                   | 8            | 19.0.0.8-jdk8  |

## Introduction

Source-to-Image (S2I) is a toolkit and workflow for building reproducible container images from source code. S2I produces ready-to-run images by injecting source code into a container image and letting the container prepare that source code for execution. By creating self-assembling builder images, you can version and control your build environments exactly like you use container images to version your runtime environments. (Source: https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image)

## Usage

This image allows providing application source and building a runnable image, which can be deployed to your docker-engine or Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster. The application source should be packaged as a ThinWar (Source Code + Internal Dependencies).

For an example project, see: https://github.com/HasseNasse/jakartaee-mp-archetype

### 1. Local Environment

Use the s2i CLI to create images using this builder image. You can download the CLI from this source: https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image/releases

Run the following command:  
`s2i build <APP_DIR> hassenasse/s2i-openliberty:<LIBERTY_VERSION>-jdk<JDK_VERSION> <APP_NAME> --copy`

_Example:_  
`s2i build ~/dev/FruitApp hassenasse/s2i-openliberty:19.0.0.8-jdk11 fruit-app --copy`

This command will create a local imagestream which can be inspected using `docker image ls`, this imagestream will have the name `<APP_NAME>`.

After a successfull build, the container can be initiated using the following command:  
`docker container run -d -p 9080:9080 -p 9443:9443 --name <APP_NAME> <APP_NAME>:latest`

### 2. OpenShift Deployment

Retrieve the image from hub.docker.com to your local registry:  
`docker pull hassenasse/s2i-openliberty:19.0.0.8-jdk11`

Import the s2i image to your OpenShift / MiniShift image registry:  
`oc import-image s2i-openliberty --from=hassenasse/s2i-openliberty:19.0.0.8-jdk11 --confirm`

Create a new openshift project:  
`oc new-project <PROJECT_NAME>`

#### Binary Builds

> The image requires a pre-built `*.war` file to be present in `<APP_DIR>/targets`.

After importing the image to our cluster registry (see 'OpenShift Deployment'), we can choose to build our applications directly from source.

Create an application using the s2i image:  
`oc new-build --name=<APP_NAME> --image-stream=<PROJECT_NAME>/s2i-openliberty:19.0.0.8-jdk11 --binary`

Start a binary build, pointing to the `<APP_DIR>`:  
`oc start-build bc/<APP_NAME> --from-dir <APP_DIR> --follow`

After the image is build and pushed to your image registry, we can view our newly built s2i using:  
`oc get is --selector="app=<APP_NAME>"`  
We should be able to see an image in the format:

| NAME       | DOCKER REPO                   | TAGS   | UPDATED              |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- | ------ | -------------------- |
| <APP_NAME> | .../<PROJECT_NAME>/<APP_NAME> | latest | a few seconds ago... |

We can now deploy our pre-packaged image:  
`oc new-app <PROJECT_NAME>/<APP_NAME>:latest --name <APP_NAME>`

## Configurability

The builder image expects a ThinWar deployable artifact in `<APP_DIR>/target/` and a couple of server-specific (optional) configuration files.
All liberty server configurations should be added to the `<APP_DIR>/liberty/` folder. These files can include the following:

| File/Folder Name     |                                                                                                                                                        Description                                                                                                                                                        |
| -------------------- | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| server.xml           |                                                                                                      The application server configuration is described in a series of elements in the server.xml configuration file.                                                                                                      |
| server.env           |                                                                                                 The Liberty specific environment variables can be configured in the server.env file to customize the Liberty environment.                                                                                                 |
| jvm.options          |                                                                          The jvm.options files are optional but, when present, are read by the bin/server shell script to determine what options to use when launching the JVM for Open Liberty.                                                                          |
| bootstrap.properties | The bootstrap.properties file is optional but, when present, it is read during Open Liberty bootstrap to provide config for the earliest stages of the server start-up. It is read by the server much earlier than server.xml so it can affect the start-up and behavior of the Open Liberty kernel right from the start. |
| resources/           |                                                                       Shared resource definitions: adapters, data sources, are injected into `wlp/usr/shared/resources/`. Can be referenced in server.xml using `${shared.resource.dir}` property.                                                                        |

For more info:  
https://openliberty.io/docs/ref/config/serverConfiguration.html
https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSD28V_liberty/com.ibm.websphere.wlp.core.doc/ae/rwlp_dirs.html
